The Joe Rogan experience.
Right now,
it's slightly difficult to talk about weight loss because I've
been obese and now I'm not obese. And I'm, I celebrate not being obese.
I am much better off with the way I have structured my life because
of having law. But I can't tell anybody else to do that.
And I don't even really want to, if somebody wants to be overweight,
if that's a trade off, they're willing to make. Yeah, that's fine with me.
But I think for the most part, most of the people I've spoken to,
they don't want that.
A lot of people seem to have goals that generally line up with,
and then in talking to them now there's this diet culture monster in the room
where even that is attacked because there's a whole new set of values that are
born. That must be enforced mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And at some point there's gotta be the recognition that we don't all necessarily
have to want the exact same stuff. Yeah.
There's also so much biologic variability, right? Like yeah.
The things that would work on another person just don't work on you, you know,
the yeah. Including diet, you know there's.
Oh man. Arguing about diets is another great one. And this, I, I,
I really like talking about diets simply because there's at the end of the day,
it's so much safer than politics,
cuz there's no military backing up a diet system, but <laugh>, you know,
you talk about politics and it's like,
we have a military mm-hmm <affirmative> to force you to do the we want you to
do. Right. Versus the other military, that's gonna force you the other way.
But diets it's like veganism versus carnivore.
If we're just talking about weight loss, the other thing,
some of these things get into like the mind Nutha of health.
If you've got a guy who's got a 200 pounds to lose,
why are we focusing on the minutia of health?
I don't know that that's the right goal. If the goal is just weight loss.
I don't think these are the same. These are the same conversations. Yeah,
I think.
I mean, I think the, the variety,
there's so many different things that need to happen to a person to force them
into action. What do you think is the key things? Is it,
is it inspiration? Is,
is motivation is sometimes,
is it that you don't want to die or you don't want to be sick any longer that
you're fed up?
Or is it being inspired by a guy like David Goggins or Cameron Hayes or someone
like that? For.
For me, for the very first time in my life, I,
I was thinking about the future in a way,
in terms of what I wanted out of life versus just like,
what makes me have happy right this second.
And I was seeing a girl who I'm now married to. We have a bunch of kids and,
and I couldn't have a better life like 20 years ago if I
described to you the life I wanted in that moment,
I've way surpassed that. That's awesome. Congratulations. Thank you very much.
Yeah. I,
I like I have to take a step back occasionally and go check you out.
Look what you did. Yeah. That's amazing. That's amazing. 500 pounds.
I was not thinking I can be a dad. I can be a husband.
I could teach little kids how to do stuff. This was not part of my,
I can't. I could take my wife on a hike.
I could go to the beach with her and not, you know,
sit under a towel in the back. Cuz I'm scared of people looking at me.
These were not the thoughts I was having.
So that spark of motivation of like, what do I want out of life?
Got me just so far because
<affirmative> after an extreme diet when you've
crashed your metabolism and you then, and by the way,
the,
your body is fighting against your tooth and nail doing these things because
this is your body thinks you're starving to death. Right. You know?
And so it's trying to slow everything down, slowing everything down, um,
over long periods, you're not just consuming fat,
you're consuming fat and lean tissue. Like it's tough.
All your hormones are up. You're you're uh, I forget the name of the hormone,
but there's a hormone that makes you hungry.
This is skyrocketing when you're on an extreme, extremely, uh,
caloric deficit diet.
And so then go to like just eating like a normal person and you're watching
what other people eat and you're eating this and you're putting on weight again,
like at a rapid pace and going like this doesn't make sense.
I thought I was cured. I lost all this weight. Um, I,
I watched a really fascinating Ted talk by a guy named Mike ISRA tell about
five years ago, four or five, five years ago. And in it, and I had tried,
I was dead convinced that I was allergic to carbohydrates. And so I was like,
I'll never eat a carbohydrate for the rest of my life.
You thought you were allergic to carbohydrate. I was convinced that everybody,
yes, that everybody was gluten intolerant.
That the way that we made bread in America with all the ingredients was just
poisonous to the human body. I was totally convinced of this.
And I watched this Ted talk by Mike Iselle and in it it's called the, uh,
the dietary landscape of healthy eating. And he just goes over like,
just be moderate. That's it just like, try to figure out moderation.
Nothing's poisonous. Nothing's off the like salt. If you have no salt,
you can die. If, if you're, if sodium disappears from your diet, you can die.
If you have too much salt, it can kill you. Like there's a, yeah.
An amount five grams, I think at one time. And, and this was,
I believe this study was done on small bodies can kill. You can be fatal.
So is that poisonous or is it necessary? It's both.
This is food for me. Like, um, the way I was interacting with food,
the idea that I'm a machine like you, you're a car guy.
You're not gonna put diesel fuel in your gas car.
You're not gonna do that cuz it's gonna break it. And,
and I had to start really thinking about food in these terms and going, like,
I just have a bad relationship with food, a,
a relationship that is giving me an outcome. I don't want, how do I change that?
Like.
Utterly catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on
Spotify, watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free Spotify is,
is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.